# Luxigrid - 3D Printed Parts List

The Luxigrid enclosure is fully 3D printable (with the exception of some fasteners and heated inserts - see the [Bill of Materials](./BOM.md) for more info).

Here is the list of files you'll need to print to make one of your own!

## List of Files

| Part Name                  | Optional? | Est. Print Time    | Est. Filament Used (g) | Supports Required |
|----------------------------|-----------|--------------------|------------------------|-------------------|
| Backplane Mesh Holder (x4) | *         | 40 minutes         | 12                     | N                 |
| Desk Mount Bracket         | N         | 45 minutes         | 13                     | N                 |
| Desk Mount                 | N         | 3 hours 30 minutes | 59                     | N                 |
| Left Backplane             | N         | 4 hours 10 minutes | 82                     | Y                 |
| Left Bracket               | N         | 1 hour 30 minutes  | 32                     | Y                 |
| Left PCB Bracket           | N         | 50 minutes         | 16                     | Y                 |
| Matrix Diffuser - No Lip   | *         | 2 hours 20 minutes | 39***                  | N                 |
| Matrix Diffuser - With Lip | *         | 2 hours 20 minutes | 39***                  | N                 |
| Right Backplane            | N         | 4 hours 10 minutes | 87                     | Y                 |
| Right PCB Bracket          | N         | 40 minutes         | 14                     | Y                 |
| SD Card Hat                | N         | 5 minutes          | 2                      | N                 |
| **Totals**                 |           | **21 hours**       | **395 g**              |                   |

*The backplane mesh holders are optional. Print them if you want to glue a mesh over the "windows" on the back of the enclosure.

**You need to print two diffusers. But you can choose to print a "No Lip" and a "With Lip" one, or two "No Lip" ones. The difference in material use is negligible, because the "With Lip" just has one extra 0.5mm line on the first layer. See notes below.

***You need at least black and white filament to print the diffusers. A minimum of **6g** of white, and **19g** of black filament is required per diffuser. The other 14g can be white, black, or whatever other colour you want.

## Slicing Tips

The recommended slicer to use with this project is [PrusaSlicer](https://www.prusa3d.com/page/prusaslicer_424/). It is compatible with Prusa printers, and many other models. Other slicers may work, but these files were designed with PrusaSlicer in mind. See the files in the `/hardware/3d/3MF` directory for PrusaSlicer projects.

Not all files are available in 3MF format, because not all of them have special requirements for supports, etc. The diffusers are probably the hardest parts of the enclosure to print, but it is doable.

If you plan to use a different slicer, you will need to ensure that supports are generated for the models requiring supports in the above. Just try not to go overboard with supports. Even if you're using a different slicer, it's recommended to open the 3MF's in PrusaSlicer first, to get a feel for which features need supports and which don't.

For the matrix diffusers, you will need one layer of white, followed by 10 layers of black, followed by any colour of your choice. This is assuming a **0.4mm nozzle** and **0.20mm** layer height, which is recommended for all parts.

The diffusers should *not have a brim on the edge where they connect*. This is to make it easier for them to fit together with as small a gap as possible. You may still need a brim on the other sides - see the 3MF files for an example.

In addition to the 3MF files for the trickier parts, we have also provided STL files for all parts, and STEP files for all but the matrix diffusers. Since they were designed in [OpenSCAD](https://openscad.org/), you also have access to the original .scad source file used to generate the matrix diffusers.

## Printing Tips

If you're using PrusaSlicer, especially with non-Prusa filament, you'll likely want to decrease the nozzle temperature considerably, to mitigate stringing. Especially for the black "grid" part of the matrix diffusers. We've had success at 190-195C for the black grid. But it depends on the specific filament you're using. Don't print too cold, or you may have other issues. But the default ~220C is generally too hot for printing the matrix diffuser grid. The other parts don't matter as much if they're stringy or not, but it really matters for the diffusers.

The diffusers must be printed with the same material throughout. So if you start with white PETG, you also need black (and whatever other optional colour) PETG to finish the diffuser. Same if you started with white PLA. Obviously you can print the rest of the enclosure with a different filament, but the colour difference may be noticeable, if you're using different types of filament for different parts of the enclosure.

We've had good results with either PLA or PETG, but other materials may work as well.

## Post-Processing Tips

If there are strings or small globs on your parts, very carefully removing them with a heat gun may be effective. This isn't really an option for the matrix diffusers or the vents/windows on the back of the enclosure, due to the thin plastic there being susceptible to warping if heat is applied.

Having some sandpaper and something like a "Metal Spudger" on hand may be useful for removing parts of brims, or other print artifacts. See the [BOM](./BOM.md) for more information on recommended tools.

For attaching the optional backplane mesh holders, hot glue is recommended. We recommend gluing the mesh to the holders first, then gluing the hole thing onto the backplane. Use the guide posts printed onto the inside of the backplanes to help align them. You may choose to install the mesh face-up or face-down. It can work either way. Although face-up is probably easier. See the [Assembly Instructions](../ASSEMBLY.md) for more information.

## Heated Insert Tips

The matrix diffusers and the right backplane both require metal heat-insert threads. You may choose to modify the source files to remove this requirement, but we highly recommend giving them a try.

These specific places, especially if you ever plan to take your Luxigrid apart, greatly benefit from not just having to screw into plastic. We experimented with placing them elsewhere, as there are still some places you'll have to screw into plastic. For instance, the PCB brackets have some plastic holes you'll have to screw into. But we couldn't get a reliable result that didn't involve the inserts falling out or detaching themselves from the plastic parts.

See the [BOM](./BOM.md) for details on the specific parts you'll need. There are many good tutorials out there for working with heated inserts. A special insert tip for a temperature-controlled soldering iron is recommended. We've tested several temperatures, and 490F or somewhere thereabouts seems ideal. You may want to have some practice before you attempt this. It's not too bad once you get the hang of it. But always be careful around soldering irons and high heat. And give the parts sufficient time to cool before continuing with the rest of the assembly.
